Today, we will talk about those who are close to all of our hearts, our children.
I'm sure that you, dear parents, greatly love and appreciate your children.
What a privilege it is to have them.
Think about it.
There are millions of angels, however, angels were not given the privilege to produce children.
When Jesus was on earth, He was not married, so He did not have the privilege of having children.
But you, parents, have that privilege.
What a treasure.
What does the governing body want to tell you children?
That we love you.
We are so happy to have you with us, and we would like to help you to become and remain
worshipers of Jehovah.
You are like a beautiful gift, a special gift from Jehovah.
Christian parents value and appreciate you children more than a million dollars.
How do we know?
Because Psalm 127 verse 3 says that children are an inheritance from Jehovah.
What does that mean?
An inheritance is a very valuable gift that has been given to someone.
Often the gift is from an older family relative.
Jehovah views you children as a very valuable gift that he has given to your parents.
He expects parents to take good care of this gift.
He entrusts parents with the welfare and happiness of their children.
And when parents do their best for you, it especially makes us happy when you children
do your best to please and serve Jehovah.
There are so many children earth wide who are fine examples for others by means of their
love for Jehovah and the truth.
Parents will your children become good examples for other young ones in the truth?
One father of seven children all of whom grew up as lovers of Jehovah would always tell
new parents that there are no guarantees with children.
They each have their own personality and are exposed to various outside influences.
But he would always urge new parents to do the best they can to teach their children
and reach their hearts.
Your conscientious effort increases the possibility of them becoming a success in Jehovah's
service.
So parents, how are you caring for your inheritance?
What are some vital steps to teach and reach the heart of your child?
First, please locate judges 13 verse 8.
The parents of Samson likely prayed often for Jehovah's help to properly raise their son.
Verse 8 says, Manoa, lead with Jehovah and said, Pardon me, Jehovah, please, let the man
of the true God whom you just sent come again to instruct us about what we should do with
the child who will be born.
If you parents do the same, Jehovah will answer your prayers through the Scriptures, Bible
literature, or possibly by means of a congregation meeting.
Additionally, being consistent with family worship is vital to reach the heart of one child.
It is true that it takes some planning and absorbs some of your time each week.
But remember that in 2008, the governing body gave us all the extra time each week for
family worship by adjusting the weekly meeting schedule.
A brother from Portugal wrote, Aside from family worship, my father had a separate Bible
study on a different day with each of us three children.
I'm sure that these studies were very important for us to resist all of the pressures
at school.
It is no surprise that all three children have been in special full-time service for a number
of years now.
Similarly, a brother from Northern Italy wrote, We studied with each one of our children personally
in harmony with their age and gender.
Each family head must decide what is best for his family.
However, a well-prepared family worship program is essential.
Another excellent way to teach your children is by example.
Children often pick up mannerisms from their parents.
They often walk and talk like one of the parents.
But they also pick up on godly personality traits and attitudes.
So be the kind of person that you want your child to be.
Even though Jesus was the only perfect child ever born on earth, it appears that his mother,
Mary, and adoptive father Joseph, were good examples for him.
Luke 2.41 and 42 tells us that Jesus' parents were accustomed to go from year to year to
Jerusalem for the Passover.
Eve could have viewed the trip as inconvenient and even too expensive.
But as parents, he and Mary said a good example for the young boy, Jesus.
Most young ones can quote 1 Corinthians 15-33 by heart.
Maybe it is because their parents have reminded them of the principle so often.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.
Do you remember in Luke chapter 8 that Jesus spoke about the different kinds of soil that
the word of God might fall on?
The soil represents your child's heart.
It is our hope and prayer that your child's heart is like good or fine soil.
In verse 15, Jesus applied the illustration of the fine soil, seeing,
these are the ones who, after hearing the word, with a fine and good heart, retain it
and bear fruit with endurance.
But what can happen if after responding to your training from God's word, your child
is somehow exposed to bad association?
When young ones spend considerable time with other young ones who have not been trained
by Bible principles, it can counteract your training from God's word.
Such association is like a severe rainstorm that erodes the fine soil that you have built
up.
It can quickly wash away the good training that you have given.
Some 1 verse 1 says that we can be happy if we do not walk with, stand with or sit with
those who do what is bad.
And we could add to that and to not text or email others who do not think wholesome thoughts.
Help your children to choose good associates.
So many young ones around the world have responded to their parents fine instruction and express
themselves from the heart.
Let me share a few experiences that demonstrate this.
One young person from the United States wrote in saying, I am 11 years old and I am an unbaptized
publisher.
I can't thank you enough for all that you do.
I especially appreciate all the time and effort you put into the Caleb and Sophia videos.
I love these videos.
They help me to show good conduct at school.
I am grateful that you encourage family worship.
You see, I used to have doubts about Jehovah.
If it were not for the time at family worship, I probably would have drifted more and more.
I love Jehovah and want to serve him but I still have lots to work on.
I hope you will make more videos to help me and other young ones to serve Jehovah with
our whole heart and whole soul.
We received this message.
Hi, I am 10 years old.
I just wanted to say thank you.
When I grow up I want to work in Bethel, because I love Jehovah and want to make him happy.
In paradise I want to open a zoo without cages.
Finding all my love.
I recall I once met an eight-year-old girl in Denver, Colorado, who was baptized at eight
years of age.
By that time she had read the entire Bible through twice.
Of course each child is unique.
Not all children become mature at the same rate or at the same point in life.
You may recall that we read Psalm 127 verse 3 earlier which said that children are an
inheritance from Jehovah.
Let's read the next verse number 4.
Like arrows in the hand of a mighty man, so are the sons of one's youth.
Children are likened to arrows that should be aimed at a target.
And archer cannot recall an arrow once it leaves his bow.
Parents have arrows.
They have their children to aim at the target for a relatively brief time.
And what is the target?
What is the goal?
For your children to become whole, some dedicated and baptized servants of Jehovah.
However, arrows can be made from different materials and they can vary in size.
Parents must remember that no two children are precisely alike.
Some have a good measure of mental and emotional maturity at a young age and express a desire
to get baptized.
Others may not be ready for baptism until they are a bit older.
Others discerning parents do not pressure their children to get baptized.
Rather, they assist each child in keeping with his or her own growth and spiritual progress.
But it is also true that some parents underestimate their children.
Some hold them back from dedicating their life to Jehovah even though they have developed
a close relationship with him as a youngster.
We received this comment from a sister in Russia.
Thank you very much for taking care of younger ones.
I particularly appreciate your support.
Your loving words inspire me.
I am 17.
I am invigorated by articles and videos which are prepared by you.
Your work and love bring me to tears.
Thank you very much.
I am touched by your affectionate care of us here in Russia.
Your warm words and prayers are the best comfort for us.
I am grateful to you.
Thanks to you taking care of me, I was able to begin pioneering two years ago.
It's the best life ever.
I am happy.
I can't be silent.
I am filled with gratitude.
The Watchtower once commented, it has been said that grazing children is a 20-year project
but parents never really stop being parents.
Among the very best things you can give to your children are love, time, and Bible-based
training.
Yes, endeavouring to reach their hearts.
Admittedly, each child will respond differently to the training.
However, many who have been raised by parents that love Jehovah feel like Duanamai, a sister
in Asia, she says.
Looking back on the training I received from my parents, I am so thankful that they
disciplined me and taught me to love Jehovah.
They did not just give me life, they gave me a meaningful life.
And there are millions of adult Christians who would express similar sentiments of appreciation.
Parents, take care of your inheritance, your precious children by training them and reaching
their heart.